# Restaurant-Sales-Analytics

Restaurant Data analytics is the process of analyzing every datapoint related to your business and converting them into meaningful insights, which can help improve everything from menus and staff straining to restaurant policies and marketing campaigns.

Unlike restaurant reporting, which involves looking at a compiled list core metrics to compare sales and profits between specific periods, restaurant analytics allow you to do a deep dive into the numbers to better understand why your business is performing in a certain way.

So, if you want to know why a certain member of the staff is performing better than others, or why you get more orders for seafood entrees on Tuesdays, let your restaurant analytics take the lead.

Big Data and Restaurants
Big data basically refers to the large volumes of data that is constantly being generated by the software solutions a restaurant has in place. For many, this begins with how a customer places an order and pays for their food.

Larger restaurants may even have 8 or more technology vendors on their payroll, which highlights the need to invest in a reliable analytics solution. Restaurants that operate on this scale, think McDonalds scale, may be looking at big solutions to understand and make use of the huge amount of data they generate.

In contrast, small and independent restaurants shouldn't need to stress over big data, as they’re unlikely to have multiple software vendors on board. In short, they most likely don't generate enough data.

For them, it’s better to concentrate on finding usefulness in the data their POS is currently producing. With that said, restaurants of all sizes are generating more data than ever before, which makes data analytics an exciting space to explore.

Short cut to Success: How Data Analytics Improve Revenue
While restaurant data analytics aren’t some form of a silver bullet that’s going to magically improve your revenue, they can present you with robust and actionable insights that can help you make invaluable business decisions.

For example, evaluating sales metrics like revenue per server can help you identify staffing issues that may be affecting your restaurant profitability. If a server generates the same amount of revenue throughout the week, and only certain hours bring a revenue dip, data analytics will be able to tell you where losses happen, and where you might be able to benefit from additional manpower.

Likewise, analysis of the data from your CRM can be used to identify why certain items sell well, who ordered what and how much of it, and other front-of-house insights. This can be used to improve your menu, as, if you evaluate what entrees are being ordered in what amounts, you can introduce more of such items on the menu.

Also, you can gain an understanding of what menu categories – from appetizers and entrées to side items and beverages – are most popular, which can help you decide which type of items you should highlight in your restaurant marketing campaign.

These are just a few of the benefits you can gain from restaurant data analytics.
